Key Points
It seems likely that the Deployment Creator script uses the Spheron Protocol SDK to create deployments with a predefined ICL YAML file, handling payments through an escrow system.
Research suggests that payments are managed automatically, requiring sufficient funds (e.g., USDT) in the user's escrow before deployment, with funds locked for the duration and unlocked if closed early.
The evidence leans toward the script checking the balance and informing users to deposit more funds if insufficient, without calculating exact costs for simplicity.
Direct Answer
Overview
The Deployment Creator script, built using the Spheron Protocol SDK, creates new deployments based on a predefined ICL YAML file, which specifies the deployment configuration. Payments are handled through the SDK's escrow system, ensuring users have enough funds before deployment.
How to Develop the Script
To develop the script:
Initialize the SDK with your private key and network (e.g., testnet).
Load the ICL YAML file (e.g., deploy.yaml) containing deployment details like services and duration.
Check your escrow balance for the payment token (e.g., USDT) to ensure sufficient funds.
Create the deployment using the SDK's createDeployment function, passing the ICL file content and provider proxy URL.
Handle errors, especially for insufficient funds, by informing users to deposit more funds.
Here’s a sample script in Node.js:
javascript
const { SpheronSDK } = require('@spheron/protocol-sdk');
const fs = require('fs');

const privateKey = 'your-private-key';
const network = 'testnet';
const providerProxyUrl = 'https://provider.spheron.network';
const iclFilePath = './path/to/deployment.yaml';
const token = 'USDT';

const iclContent = fs.readFileSync(iclFilePath, 'utf8');
const SDK = new SpheronSDK({ network, privateKey });

async function main() {
    try {
        const balance = await SDK.escrow.getUserBalance(token);
        console.log(`Your current escrow balance for ${token}:`, balance);
        const deployment = await SDK.deployment.createDeployment(iclContent, providerProxyUrl);
        console.log('Deployment created:', deployment);
    } catch (error) {
        console.error('Error creating deployment:', error.message);
        if (error.message.includes('insufficient balance')) {
            console.log(`Please deposit more ${token} to your escrow and try again.`);
        }
    }
}

main();
Payment Process
Payments are managed through the escrow system:
You need sufficient funds (e.g., USDT) in your escrow to cover the deployment cost, which is locked for the duration and unlocked if closed early.
The script checks your balance before attempting deployment, but doesn’t calculate exact costs for simplicity, assuming you’ve ensured enough funds.
If the balance is insufficient, the deployment fails, and you’re prompted to deposit more funds using the SDK’s depositBalance function.
Unexpected Detail
While you might expect the script to calculate the exact deployment cost, it relies on the SDK to handle payments automatically, making it simpler but requiring you to estimate costs based on ICL file details like duration and profile type.
Survey Note: Comprehensive Analysis of Developing a Deployment Creator Script with Payment Handling
This section provides a thorough exploration of developing a "Deployment Creator" script using the Spheron Protocol SDK, focusing on creating deployments with a predefined ICL YAML file and addressing payment processes. The analysis includes all relevant details from the research process, expanding on the direct answer with professional insights and considerations.
Introduction to Spheron Protocol SDK and Deployment Creation
The Spheron Protocol SDK, available at GitHub repository, is designed for interacting with the Spheron decentralized infrastructure, particularly for managing compute leases, deployments, and escrow operations. The "Deployment Creator" script aims to create new deployments using a predefined configuration file, known as an ICL YAML file, which specifies deployment requirements such as services, datacenters, and pricing parameters.
The ICL, or Infrastructure Composition Language, is a YAML-based declarative system used by Spheron Network for resource allocation, similar to Docker Compose files. The deploy.yaml file (or .yml) serves as a manifest for network resources, detailing networking settings, services, profiles, and deployment strategies. For example, it can specify GPU units, private registry credentials, and lease duration, which are critical for determining deployment costs.
Developing the Deployment Creator Script
To develop the script, the process involves several steps, each leveraging the SDK's capabilities:
Initialization: The script begins by initializing the SpheronSDK, requiring the user's private key and network (e.g., "testnet" for testing purposes). This is done using a Node.js environment, as the SDK is primarily designed for backend operations. An example initialization is:
javascript
const { SpheronSDK } = require('@spheron/protocol-sdk');
const SDK = new SpheronSDK({ network: 'testnet', privateKey: 'your-private-key' });
The private key links to the user's wallet address, which is associated with their escrow balance for payments.
Loading the ICL YAML File: The script loads the predefined ICL YAML file, typically named deploy.yaml, using Node.js's fs module to read the file content. For instance:
javascript
const fs = require('fs');
const iclContent = fs.readFileSync('./path/to/deployment.yaml', 'utf8');
The ICL file contains sections like services, profiles, and deployment, specifying workloads, compute profiles, and duration. An example from the documentation (Infrastructure Composition Language (ICL) – Spheron) includes:
yaml
version: "1.0"
services:
  myapp:
    image: myregistry.com/myuser/myapp:latest
    expose:
      - port: 3000
        as: 80
        to: - global: true
profiles:
  compute:
    name: web-compute
    duration: 1h
    tiers: secured-1
This file defines the deployment's requirements, including the duration, which impacts the cost.
Checking Escrow Balance: Before creating the deployment, the script can check the user's escrow balance to ensure sufficient funds. The SDK's escrow module provides a getUserBalance function, which requires specifying the payment token (e.g., USDT). For example:
javascript
const balance = await SDK.escrow.getUserBalance('USDT');
console.log(`Your current escrow balance for USDT:`, balance);
The research indicates that Spheron supports multiple payment tokens, with USDT being commonly used, as seen in the CLI documentation (Spheron Protocol CLI – Spheron). Users need a minimum balance of the token before deployment, and they can deposit funds using depositBalance or the CLI command sphnctl payment deposit --amount 50 --token USDT.
Creating the Deployment: The script uses the createDeployment function from the deployment module, passing the ICL content and the provider proxy URL (e.g., https://provider.spheron.network). The function handles the deployment creation, which includes locking the required funds from the escrow. An example call is:
javascript
const deployment = await SDK.deployment.createDeployment(iclContent, providerProxyUrl);
console.log('Deployment created:', deployment);
The research suggests that this function automatically checks for sufficient balance and locks funds based on the deployment's duration and profile, as detailed in the ICL documentation.
Error Handling: The script includes error handling to catch potential issues, particularly related to insufficient funds. If the createDeployment function fails with an error message including "insufficient balance," the script informs the user to deposit more funds. For example:
javascript
} catch (error) {
    console.error('Error creating deployment:', error.message);
    if (error.message.includes('insufficient balance')) {
        console.log('Please deposit more USDT to your escrow and try again.');
    }
}
This approach ensures the script remains simple while providing feedback for payment-related issues.
Payment Process for Deployments
The payment process is integral to deployment creation and is managed through the SDK's escrow system. Key aspects include:
Escrow System: The user's wallet, linked via the private key, holds funds in an escrow account. Supported payment tokens include ETH (for transaction fees) and USDT (for deployment costs), as per the CLI documentation. The research indicates that users must fund their wallet with ETH on the Arbitrum chain for transaction fees and have the payment token for deployment costs.
Fund Locking and Unlocking: When a deployment is created, the required funds are locked in the escrow based on the lease duration specified in the ICL file. For instance, if the duration is 1 hour and the profile costs 80 USDT per hour, 80 USDT is locked. If the deployment is closed prematurely, unspent funds are unlocked, as noted in the ICL documentation.
Balance Requirements: Users need a minimum balance of the payment token before deployment. The CLI provides commands like sphnctl wallet balance --token USDT to check the balance, and sphnctl payment deposit to add funds. The script can leverage getUserBalance to inform users of their current balance, but it doesn't calculate the exact cost, relying on the SDK to handle payment validation.
Token Specification: The research found no explicit mention of specifying the payment token in the ICL file, suggesting it might be determined by the network or wallet settings. For simplicity, the script assumes USDT as the default token, aligning with examples in the documentation.
Considerations for Simplicity and User Experience
Given the request for a "very simple" app, the script avoids complex cost calculations, which would require parsing the ICL file to extract duration and profile details, then fetching pricing information from the network. Instead, it relies on the SDK to handle payments automatically, checking the balance as an informational step. This approach ensures the script remains straightforward, suitable for command-line use, and aligns with the SDK's backend focus.
An unexpected detail is that while users might expect the script to estimate costs, it delegates this to the SDK, making implementation easier but requiring users to estimate costs based on ICL file details like duration and profile type (e.g., web compute at 80 USDT per hour). This simplifies development but shifts some responsibility to the user.
Detailed Implementation and Examples
To enhance the script, consider the following table summarizing the key functions and their purposes:
Function
Purpose
Example Usage
SpheronSDK
Initializes the SDK with network and private key
new SpheronSDK({ network: 'testnet', privateKey: 'key' })
getUserBalance
Checks escrow balance for a specific token
await SDK.escrow.getUserBalance('USDT')
createDeployment
Creates a new deployment with ICL content
await SDK.deployment.createDeployment(icl, url)
depositBalance
Deposits funds to escrow (for user reference)
await SDK.escrow.depositBalance('USDT', 50)
The script can be extended to accept the ICL file path as a command-line argument for flexibility, but for simplicity, hardcoding the path is acceptable. The research also considered adding user interaction for depositing funds if the balance is low, but this was deemed too complex for a command-line script, opting instead for error messages.
Conclusion
The Deployment Creator script, developed using the Spheron Protocol SDK, provides a simple way to create deployments with a predefined ICL YAML file, handling payments through the escrow system. Users must ensure sufficient funds (e.g., USDT) in their escrow before deployment, with the script checking the balance and informing them to deposit more if needed. This approach balances simplicity with functionality, aligning with the SDK's design for backend operations.
Key Citations
GitHub repository overview for Spheron Protocol SDK
Infrastructure Composition Language (ICL) – Spheron
Spheron Protocol CLI – Spheron
Collection of ready-to-deploy GPU templates for Spheron
The Official YAML Web Site